REFS.md, before:

# References
A reference list classifying supporting evidence for key validation.

### GPG Signature
| Instrument | Expectation |
|:---|:---|
| **Control** | Key |
| **Assurance** | `full` |
| **Scope** | Subject demonstrates possession and exercise of the private key. |
| **Requirement** | Subject MUST sign *any message*† using the private key. |
| **Extensions** | Subject SHOULD use this method to send a *clearsigned* message from the email address listed to any verifier needing to perform additional email verification. |

**Example**:  
```json
{
    "date": "2024-11-27",
    "comment": "Signed artifact demonstrating private key use: `echo -n '3ED3 3CCE 4BED 165C 9107 3D9F 65B8 8DAC 23AF 5BCD E520 F723 C1E6 2A69 B369 F278' | gpg --clearsign --local-user D41A83E1C6B701619D0D812FC3F69D1BE6BCBD16`",
    "artifact": "-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----\nHash: SHA512\n\n3ED3 3CCE 4BED 165C 9107 3D9F 65B8 8DAC 23AF 5BCD E520 F723 C1E6 2A69 B369 F278\n-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----\n\niHUEARYKAB0WIQTUGoPhxrcBYZ0NgS/D9p0b5ry9FgUCZ0dD0AAKCRDD9p0b5ry9\nFvonAQCHwAHRduopWn8I534GNRXQ0+dX5JO2ztnFxnlwZd+NMAD/Wr0NWLEc+eCf\nQm2UHkDp8lKswj6kXxTi9GI3elvpQgE=\n=L95q\n-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----\n",
    "type": "key"
}
```
†The use of a cryptographic *nonce* for demonstrating message uniqueness is not strictly necessary due to the presence of the *Signature Creation Time* in the resulting hashed packet ([§5.2.3.4, RFC 4880](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4880#section-5.2.3.4)).

---

### Commit History
**Control**: Role  
**Assurance**: `full`

Subject demonstrates involvement and association with project. Expects link to commit in URL field.

**Example**:  
```json
{
    "date": "2025-03-07",
    "comment": "Self-attestation of own key under GitHub vigilant mode: 1) B5690EEEBB952194 is signing this commit via GitHub web interface, 2) commit author is authenticated as GitHub user @mattborja, AND 2) commit author affirms ownership of this selfsame key (A1C7E813F160A407)",
    "type": "user",
    "url": "https://github.com/mattborja/identity/commit/bf06562979a0eb3ef5a9da8d92edb8c7dd886ec7"
}
```
---

### Industry License and/or Certification
**Control**: Role  
**Assurance**: `full`

Subject has verified identity with independent proctor and demonstrates proficiency and/or license to operate within a specific industry or activity. Expects link to verifiable credential in URL field.

**Example**:  
```json
{
    "date": "2025-01-01",
    "comment": "Industry `certification requiring strong identity verification during proctored high stakes exam with global information assurance certification (https://www.giac.org/knowledge-base/proctor/)",`
    "type": "user",
    "url": "https://www.credly.com/badges/c0ee1538-53dd-43a0-bf9e-7724e374ff43"
},
```

Commit message:

Clarify verifier audience (key distributors) and expectations for using the GPG Signature method for email verification purposes

REFS.md, after:

# References
A reference list classifying supporting evidence for key validation.

### GPG Signature
| Instrument | Expectation |
|:---|:---|
| **Control** | Key |
| **Assurance** | `full` |
| **Scope** | Subject demonstrates possession and exercise of the private key. |
| **Requirement** | Subject MUST sign *any message*† using the private key. |
| **Extensions** | Verifiers participating in the [key distribution process](https://www.gnupg.org/gph/en/manual/x457.html) SHOULD first be performing email verification using this method to request a message from the email address listed on the public key, *clearsigned* ONLY by the corresponding private key.

**Example**:  
```json
{
    "date": "2024-11-27",
    "comment": "Signed artifact demonstrating private key use: `echo -n '3ED3 3CCE 4BED 165C 9107 3D9F 65B8 8DAC 23AF 5BCD E520 F723 C1E6 2A69 B369 F278' | gpg --clearsign --local-user D41A83E1C6B701619D0D812FC3F69D1BE6BCBD16`",
    "artifact": "-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----\nHash: SHA512\n\n3ED3 3CCE 4BED 165C 9107 3D9F 65B8 8DAC 23AF 5BCD E520 F723 C1E6 2A69 B369 F278\n-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----\n\niHUEARYKAB0WIQTUGoPhxrcBYZ0NgS/D9p0b5ry9FgUCZ0dD0AAKCRDD9p0b5ry9\nFvonAQCHwAHRduopWn8I534GNRXQ0+dX5JO2ztnFxnlwZd+NMAD/Wr0NWLEc+eCf\nQm2UHkDp8lKswj6kXxTi9GI3elvpQgE=\n=L95q\n-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----\n",
    "type": "key"
}
```
†The use of a cryptographic *nonce* for demonstrating message uniqueness is not strictly necessary due to the presence of the *Signature Creation Time* in the resulting hashed packet ([§5.2.3.4, RFC 4880](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4880#section-5.2.3.4)).

---

### Commit History
**Control**: Role  
**Assurance**: `full`

Subject demonstrates involvement and association with project. Expects link to commit in URL field.

**Example**:  
```json
{
    "date": "2025-03-07",
    "comment": "Self-attestation of own key under GitHub vigilant mode: 1) B5690EEEBB952194 is signing this commit via GitHub web interface, 2) commit author is authenticated as GitHub user @mattborja, AND 2) commit author affirms ownership of this selfsame key (A1C7E813F160A407)",
    "type": "user",
    "url": "https://github.com/mattborja/identity/commit/bf06562979a0eb3ef5a9da8d92edb8c7dd886ec7"
}
```
---

### Industry License and/or Certification
**Control**: Role  
**Assurance**: `full`

Subject has verified identity with independent proctor and demonstrates proficiency and/or license to operate within a specific industry or activity. Expects link to verifiable credential in URL field.

**Example**:  
```json
{
    "date": "2025-01-01",
    "comment": "Industry `certification requiring strong identity verification during proctored high stakes exam with global information assurance certification (https://www.giac.org/knowledge-base/proctor/)",`
    "type": "user",
    "url": "https://www.credly.com/badges/c0ee1538-53dd-43a0-bf9e-7724e374ff43"
},
```
